[
  {
    "title": "MacBook Neo",
    "url": "https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2026/03/say-hello-to-macbook-neo/",
    "text": "Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Newsroom Open Newsroom navigation Close Newsroom navigation Apple Services Apple Stories Search Newsroom Close opens in new window PRESS RELEASE March 4, 2026 Say hello to MacBook Neo Apple’s all-new MacBook features a durable aluminum design, a stunning 13-inch Liquid Retina display, the power of Apple silicon, and all-day battery life — all for the breakthrough starting price of just $599 With its beautiful and durable aluminum design, stunning Liquid Retina display, Apple silicon-powered performance, all-day battery life, and more, the all-new MacBook Neo delivers the magic of the Mac experience at a breakthrough price. CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA Apple today unveiled MacBook Neo , an all-new laptop that delivers the magic of the Mac at a breakthrough price, making it even more accessible to millions of people around the world. MacBook Neo starts with a beautiful Apple design, featuring a durable aluminum enclosure in an array of gorgeous colors — blush, indigo, silver, and a fresh new citrus. Its stunning 13-inch Liquid Retina display brings websites, photos, videos, and apps to life with high resolution and brightness, and support for 1 billion colors. Powered by A18 Pro, MacBook Neo can fly through everyday tasks, from browsing the web and streaming content, to editing photos, exploring creative hobbies, or using AI capabilities across apps. In fact, it’s up to 50 percent faster for everyday tasks like web browsing, 1 and up to 3x faster when running on-device AI workloads like applying advanced effects to photos, 2 compared to the bestselling PC with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5. Providing up to 16 hours of battery life, MacBook Neo allows users to go all day on a single charge. 3 A 1080p FaceTime HD camera and dual mics make it easy to look and sound great, and the dual side-firing speakers with Spatial Audio deliver crisp, immersive sound. MacBook Neo also features Apple’s renowned Magic Keyboard for comfortable and precise typing, and a large Multi-Touch trackpad with support for intuitive gestures, enabling smooth and precise control. Completing the MacBook Neo experience is macOS Tahoe, with powerful built-in apps like Messages, Pages, Calendar, and Safari; seamless integration with iPhone; Apple Intelligence; as well as broad compatibility with third-party apps. And starting at just $599 and $499 for education, MacBook Neo is Apple’s most affordable laptop ever, providing an unprecedented combination of quality and value. MacBook Neo is available to pre-order starting today, with availability beginning Wednesday, March 11. “We’re incredibly excited to introduce MacBook Neo, which delivers the magic of the Mac at a breakthrough price,” said John Ternus, Apple’s senior vice president of Hardware Engineering. “Built from the ground up to be more affordable for even more people, MacBook Neo is a laptop only Apple could create. It features a durable aluminum design in four beautiful colors; a brilliant Liquid Retina display; Apple silicon-powered performance; all-day battery life; a high-quality camera, mics, and speakers; a Magic Keyboard and Multi-Touch trackpad; and the intuitive and powerful features of macOS. There is simply no other laptop like it.” MacBook Neo provides an unmatched combination of quality and affordability for students, families, small business owners, new Mac users, and more. Beautiful and Durable Aluminum Design MacBook Neo features a beautifully crafted aluminum design that’s built to last. With its soft, rounded corners, MacBook Neo looks elegant while feeling solid and comfortable to hold. At just 2.7 pounds, it’s also easy to carry in a backpack or handbag. Bringing a fun touch of personality and style to everyday computing, MacBook Neo comes in a spectrum of four gorgeous colors: blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. These colors extend to the Magic Keyboard in lighter shades and new wallpapers, creating a cohesive design aesthetic and making MacBook Neo the most colorful MacBook yet. A fanned-out array of MacBook Neo models in its four colors: silver, blush, citrus, and indigo. MacBook Neo in blush. MacBook Neo in indigo. MacBook Neo in silver. MacBook Neo in citrus. MacBook Neo comes in four beautiful colors — silver, blush, citrus, and indigo. MacBook Neo comes in four beautiful colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. MacBook Neo comes in four beautiful colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. MacBook Neo comes in four beautiful colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. MacBook Neo comes in four beautiful colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. previous next Stunning 13-Inch Liquid Retina Display A gorgeous 13-inch Liquid Retina display features a 2408-by-1506 resolution, 500 nits of brightness, and support for 1 billion colors, bringing to life sharp, crystal-clear text and vibrant images. The display is both brighter and higher in resolution than most PC laptops in this price range, putting it in a class of its own. Finally, an anti-reflective coating provides a comfortable viewing experience in a variety of lighting conditions, allowing users to watch movies, edit photos, or take video calls from anywhere. The 13-inch Liquid Retina display on MacBook Neo brings to life sharp, crystal-clear text and vibrant images. Apple Silicon-Powered Performance At the heart of MacBook Neo is A18 Pro, enabling users to power through things they do every day, like browsing the web, creating documents, streaming content, editing photos, and taking advantage of AI. Users can seamlessly work between their favorite apps, like Messages, WhatsApp, Canva, Excel, Safari, and more. MacBook Neo with A18 Pro is up to 50 percent faster for everyday tasks than the bestselling PC with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5. 1 And for more demanding activities, it’s up to 3x faster for on-device AI workloads 2 and up to 2x faster for tasks like photo editing. 4 The integrated 5-core GPU brings graphics to life while playing action-packed games or exploring creative hobbies. And a 16-core Neural Engine supports fast on-device Apple Intelligence features and everyday AI tasks like summarizing notes in Bear or using the Clean Up tool in the Photos app, while ensuring user data stays private and secure. MacBook Neo is also fanless, so it runs completely silent. A user creates a presentation titled “Sticky Science” on their blush MacBook Neo. A user answers emails and browses the web on their citrus MacBook Neo. A person uses ChatGPT and Canva on their blush MacBook Neo. A person multitasks between apps on their indigo MacBook Neo. With A18 Pro, MacBook Neo can power through a wide range of everyday tasks, from browsing the web to sending emails and effortlessly multitasking between apps. With A18 Pro, MacBook Neo can power through a wide range of everyday tasks, from browsing the web to sending emails and effortlessly multitasking between apps. With A18 Pro, MacBook Neo can power through a wide range of everyday tasks, from browsing the web to sending emails and effortlessly multitasking between apps. A18 Pro features a 5-core GPU to facilitate smooth performance for everything from FaceTime calls to casual gameplay. previous next All-Day Battery Life Thanks to the incredible power efficiency of Apple silicon, MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge. 3 This makes it a perfect on-the-go companion for work or play, from the classroom to the coffee shop, and everywhere in between. A student uses their citrus MacBook Neo in a classroom setting. A person lounges in bed using MacBook Neo while listening to music on AirPods Max. A person uses their silver MacBook Neo in an auditorium-like setting. A person in textile studio works on MacBook Neo. MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge, making it a perfect on-the-go companion for school, work, or play. MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge, making it a perfect on-the-go companion for school, work, or play. MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge, making it a perfect on-the-go companion for school, work, or play. MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge, making it a perfect on-the-go companion for school, work, or play. previous next Magic Keyboard and New Multi-Touch Trackpad MacBook Neo features Apple’s much-loved Magic Keyboard, which provides a comfortable, precise typing experience, while a large Multi-Touch trackpad lets users click, scroll, swipe, and pinch anywhere on its surface. The MacBook Neo model with Touch ID enables easy, quick, and secure login authentication, and the ability to conveniently authorize purchases using Apple Pay. A color-matched Magic Keyboard provides a comfortable, precise typing experience, while a new Multi-Touch trackpad lets users click, scroll, swipe, and pinch anywhere on its surface. 1080p Camera; Dual Speakers and Mics The 1080p FaceTime HD camera on MacBook Neo has optimized image processing to deliver vibrant video calls. Dual mics with directional beamforming are designed to reduce background noise and isolate a user’s voice, allowing it to come across loud and clear for an excellent video conferencing experience. And dual side-firing speakers with support for Spatial Audio and Dolby Atmos produce immersive sound for watching a movie, listening to music, or using apps like GarageBand. The 1080p FaceTime HD camera delivers clear video calls in a variety of lighting conditions, and dual mics with directional beamforming isolate a user’s voice and reduce background noise. Essential Connectivity MacBook Neo features two USB-C ports for connecting accessories or an external display. 5 Both ports can be used for charging. MacBook Neo also includes a headphone jack for wired audio. Wi-Fi 6E provides fast wireless connectivity, and Bluetooth 6 ensures reliable wireless connections for peripherals and accessories. MacBook Neo features two USB-C ports and a headphone jack for wired audio, plus Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 6. Powerful Productivity with macOS macOS is Apple’s powerful and intuitive operating system for Mac. 6 With incredible features and built-in apps like Safari, Photos, Messages, and FaceTime, macOS enables users to get started right out of the box. Apple Intelligence features like Writing Tools, Live Translation, and more are deeply integrated across macOS, elevating the user experience by bringing intelligence to the apps users rely on every day. 7 Advanced privacy and security also come standard, featuring industry‑leading encryption, robust virus protections, and automatic free security updates to help keep users protected. Seamless Integration with iPhone iPhone users can tap in to Continuity features built in to macOS to make working across iPhone and Mac a breeze. Handoff lets users start a task on MacBook Neo and continue it on iPhone, while Universal Clipboard allows users to copy and paste content between devices. With iPhone Mirroring, users can view and interact with their iPhone directly on MacBook Neo, and users switching to Mac for the first time can use iPhone to conveniently and securely transfer settings, files, photos, passwords, and more. Built with the Environment in Mind MacBook Neo was built from the ground up to be Apple’s lowest-carbon MacBook, and brings the company even closer to reaching its ambitious plan to be carbon neutral across its entire footprint by 2030. It features 60 percent recycled content — the highest percentage of any Apple product. 8 This includes 90 percent recycled aluminum overall and 100 percent recycled cobalt in the battery. The enclosure is manufactured with a material-efficient forming process that uses 50 percent less aluminum compared to traditional machining methods. MacBook Neo is manufactured with 45 percent renewable electricity, like wind and solar, across the supply chain. It also meets Apple’s high standards for energy efficiency and safe chemistry. Additionally, the paper packaging is 100 percent fiber-based and can be easily recycled. 9 Pricing and Availability Customers can pre-order the new MacBook Neo starting today at apple.com/store and in the Apple Store app in 30 countries and regions, including the U.S. It will begin arriving to customers, and will be in Apple Store locations and Apple Authorized Resellers, starting Wednesday, March 11. MacBook Neo starts at $599 (U.S.) and $499 (U.S.) for education. It is available in four colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. Additional technical specifications, configure-to-order options, and accessories are available at apple.com/mac . With Apple Trade In, customers can trade in their current computer and get credit toward a new Mac. Customers can visit apple.com/shop/trade-in to see what their device is worth. AppleCare delivers exceptional service and support, with flexible options for Apple users. Customers can choose AppleCare+ to cover their new Mac, or in the U.S., AppleCare One to protect multiple products in one simple plan. Both plans include coverage for accidents like drops and spills, theft and loss protection on eligible products, battery replacement service, and 24/7 support from Apple Experts. For more information, visit apple.com/applecare . Every customer who buys directly from Apple Retail gets access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk them through setup, or focus on features that help them make the most of their new device. Customers can also learn more about getting started and going further with their new device with a Today at Apple session at their nearest Apple Store. Customers in the U.S. who shop at Apple using Apple Card can pay monthly at 0 percent APR when they choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments, and they’ll get 3 percent Daily Cash back — all up front. More information — including details on eligibility, exclusions, and Apple Card terms — is available at apple.com/apple-card/monthly-installments . Share article Media Text of this article March 4, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Say hello to MacBook Neo Apple’s all-new MacBook features a durable aluminum design, a stunning 13-inch Liquid Retina display, the power of Apple silicon, and all-day battery life — all for the breakthrough starting price of just $599 CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA Apple today unveiled MacBook Neo , an all-new laptop that delivers the magic of the Mac at a breakthrough price, making it even more accessible to millions of people around the world. MacBook Neo starts with a beautiful Apple design, featuring a durable aluminum enclosure in an array of gorgeous colors — blush, indigo, silver, and a fresh new citrus. Its stunning 13-inch Liquid Retina display brings websites, photos, videos, and apps to life with high resolution and brightness, and support for 1 billion colors. Powered by A18 Pro, MacBook Neo can fly through everyday tasks, from browsing the web and streaming content, to editing photos, exploring creative hobbies, or using AI capabilities across apps. In fact, it’s up to 50 percent faster for everyday tasks like web browsing, 1 and up to 3x faster when running on-device AI workloads like applying advanced effects to photos, 2 compared to the bestselling PC with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5. Providing up to 16 hours of battery life, MacBook Neo allows users to go all day on a single charge. 3 A 1080p FaceTime HD camera and dual mics make it easy to look and sound great, and the dual side-firing speakers with Spatial Audio deliver crisp, immersive sound. MacBook Neo also features Apple’s renowned Magic Keyboard for comfortable and precise typing, and a large Multi-Touch trackpad with support for intuitive gestures, enabling smooth and precise control. Completing the MacBook Neo experience is macOS Tahoe, with powerful built-in apps like Messages, Pages, Calendar, and Safari; seamless integration with iPhone; Apple Intelligence; as well as broad compatibility with third-party apps. And starting at just $599 and $499 for education, MacBook Neo is Apple’s most affordable laptop ever, providing an unprecedented combination of quality and value. MacBook Neo is available to pre-order starting today, with availability beginning Wednesday, March 11. “We’re incredibly excited to introduce MacBook Neo, which delivers the magic of the Mac at a breakthrough price,” said John Ternus, Apple’s senior vice president of Hardware Engineering. “Built from the ground up to be more affordable for even more people, MacBook Neo is a laptop only Apple could create. It features a durable aluminum design in four beautiful colors; a brilliant Liquid Retina display; Apple silicon-powered performance; all-day battery life; a high-quality camera, mics, and speakers; a Magic Keyboard and Multi-Touch trackpad; and the intuitive and powerful features of macOS. There is simply no other laptop like it.” Beautiful and Durable Aluminum Design MacBook Neo features a beautifully crafted aluminum design that’s built to last. With its soft, rounded corners, MacBook Neo looks elegant while feeling solid and comfortable to hold. At just 2.7 pounds, it’s also easy to carry in a backpack or handbag. Bringing a fun touch of personality and style to everyday computing, MacBook Neo comes in a spectrum of four gorgeous colors: blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. These colors extend to the Magic Keyboard in lighter shades and new wallpapers, creating a cohesive design aesthetic and making MacBook Neo the most colorful MacBook yet. Stunning 13-Inch Liquid Retina Display A gorgeous 13-inch Liquid Retina display features a 2408-by-1506 resolution, 500 nits of brightness, and support for 1 billion colors, bringing to life sharp, crystal-clear text and vibrant images. The display is both brighter and higher in resolution than most PC laptops in this price range, putting it in a class of its own. Finally, an anti-reflective coating provides a comfortable viewing experience in a variety of lighting conditions, allowing users to watch movies, edit photos, or take video calls from anywhere. Apple Silicon-Powered Performance At the heart of MacBook Neo is A18 Pro, enabling users to power through things they do every day, like browsing the web, creating documents, streaming content, editing photos, and taking advantage of AI. Users can seamlessly work between their favorite apps, like Messages, WhatsApp, Canva, Excel, Safari, and more. MacBook Neo with A18 Pro is up to 50 percent faster for everyday tasks than the bestselling PC with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5. 1 And for more demanding activities, it’s up to 3x faster for on-device AI workloads 2 and up to 2x faster for tasks like photo editing. 4 The integrated 5-core GPU brings graphics to life while playing action-packed games or exploring creative hobbies. And a 16-core Neural Engine supports fast on-device Apple Intelligence features and everyday AI tasks like summarizing notes in Bear or using the Clean Up tool in the Photos app, while ensuring user data stays private and secure. MacBook Neo is also fanless, so it runs completely silent. All-Day Battery Life Thanks to the incredible power efficiency of Apple silicon, MacBook Neo delivers up to 16 hours of battery life on a single charge. 3 This makes it a perfect on-the-go companion for work or play, from the classroom to the coffee shop, and everywhere in between. Magic Keyboard and New Multi-Touch Trackpad MacBook Neo features Apple’s much-loved Magic Keyboard, which provides a comfortable, precise typing experience, while a large Multi-Touch trackpad lets users click, scroll, swipe, and pinch anywhere on its surface. The MacBook Neo model with Touch ID enables easy, quick, and secure login authentication, and the ability to conveniently authorize purchases using Apple Pay. 1080p Camera; Dual Speakers and Mics The 1080p FaceTime HD camera on MacBook Neo has optimized image processing to deliver vibrant video calls. Dual mics with directional beamforming are designed to reduce background noise and isolate a user’s voice, allowing it to come across loud and clear for an excellent video conferencing experience. And dual side-firing speakers with support for Spatial Audio and Dolby Atmos produce immersive sound for watching a movie, listening to music, or using apps like GarageBand. Essential Connectivity MacBook Neo features two USB-C ports for connecting accessories or an external display. 5 Both ports can be used for charging. MacBook Neo also includes a headphone jack for wired audio. Wi-Fi 6E provides fast wireless connectivity, and Bluetooth 6 ensures reliable wireless connections for peripherals and accessories. Powerful Productivity with macOS macOS is Apple’s powerful and intuitive operating system for Mac. 6 With incredible features and built-in apps like Safari, Photos, Messages, and FaceTime, macOS enables users to get started right out of the box. Apple Intelligence features like Writing Tools, Live Translation, and more are deeply integrated across macOS, elevating the user experience by bringing intelligence to the apps users rely on every day. 7 Advanced privacy and security also come standard, featuring industry‑leading encryption, robust virus protections, and automatic free security updates to help keep users protected. Seamless Integration with iPhone iPhone users can tap in to Continuity features built in to macOS to make working across iPhone and Mac a breeze. Handoff lets users start a task on MacBook Neo and continue it on iPhone, while Universal Clipboard allows users to copy and paste content between devices. With iPhone Mirroring, users can view and interact with their iPhone directly on MacBook Neo, and users switching to Mac for the first time can use iPhone to conveniently and securely transfer settings, files, photos, passwords, and more. Built with the Environment in Mind MacBook Neo was built from the ground up to be Apple’s lowest-carbon MacBook, and brings the company even closer to reaching its ambitious plan to be carbon neutral across its entire footprint by 2030. It features 60 percent recycled content — the highest percentage of any Apple product. 8 This includes 90 percent recycled aluminum overall and 100 percent recycled cobalt in the battery. The enclosure is manufactured with a material-efficient forming process that uses 50 percent less aluminum compared to traditional machining methods. MacBook Neo is manufactured with 45 percent renewable electricity, like wind and solar, across the supply chain. It also meets Apple’s high standards for energy efficiency and safe chemistry. Additionally, the paper packaging is 100 percent fiber-based and can be easily recycled. 9 Pricing and Availability Customers can pre-order the new MacBook Neo starting today at apple.com/store and in the Apple Store app in 30 countries and regions, including the U.S. It will begin arriving to customers, and will be in Apple Store locations and Apple Authorized Resellers, starting Wednesday, March 11. MacBook Neo starts at $599 (U.S.) and $499 (U.S.) for education. It is available in four colors — blush, indigo, silver, and citrus. Additional technical specifications, configure-to-order options, and accessories are available at apple.com/mac . With Apple Trade In, customers can trade in their current computer and get credit toward a new Mac. Customers can visit apple.com/shop/trade-in to see what their device is worth. AppleCare delivers exceptional service and support, with flexible options for Apple users. Customers can choose AppleCare+ to cover their new Mac, or in the U.S., AppleCare One to protect multiple products in one simple plan. Both plans include coverage for accidents like drops and spills, theft and loss protection on eligible products, battery replacement service, and 24/7 support from Apple Experts. For more information, visit apple.com/applecare . Every customer who buys directly from Apple Retail gets access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk them through setup, or focus on features that help them make the most of their new device. Customers can also learn more about getting started and going further with their new device with a Today at Apple session at their nearest Apple Store. Customers in the U.S. who shop at Apple using Apple Card can pay monthly at 0 percent APR when they choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments, and they’ll get 3 percent Daily Cash back — all up front. More information — including details on eligibility, exclusions, and Apple Card terms — is available at apple.com/apple-card/monthly-installments . About Apple Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, AirPods, Apple Watch, and Apple Vision Pro. Apple’s six software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, visionOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, iCloud, and Apple TV. Apple’s more than 150,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth and to leaving the world better than we found it. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Speedometer 3.1 performance benchmark tested with pre-release Safari 26.3 on macOS Tahoe, and both Chrome 144.0.7559.110 and Edge 144.0.3719.104 on Windows 11 Home. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Adobe Photoshop 2026 27.3.0 tested using the following filters and functions: super zoom, depth blur, JPEG artifact removal, style transfer, photo restoration, and landscape mixer. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. Testing was conducted by Apple in January 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD. Wireless web battery life tested by browsing 25 popular websites while connected to Wi-Fi. Video streaming battery life tested with 1080p content in Safari while connected to Wi-Fi. All systems tested with display brightness set to eight clicks from bottom. Battery life varies by use and configuration. See apple.com/batteries for more information. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Tested with Affinity v3.0.3.4027 using the built-in benchmark 30000. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. MacBook Neo features two USB-C ports — USB 3 (left) and USB 2 (right). External display connectivity supported on left USB 3 port only. macOS Tahoe is available as a free software update. Some features may not be available in all regions or in all languages. See requirements at apple.com/os/macos . Apple Intelligence is available in beta with support for these languages: English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Japanese, and Korean. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. For feature and language availability and system requirements, see support.apple.com/en-us/121115 . Product recycled or renewable content is the mass of certified recycled material relative to the overall mass of the device, not including packaging or in-box accessories. Comparison excludes accessories. Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Adhesives, inks, and coatings are excluded from calculations. Press Contacts Starlayne Meza Apple starlayne_meza@apple.com Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com Copy text Media in this article Download all images About Apple Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, AirPods, Apple Watch, and Apple Vision Pro. Apple’s six software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, visionOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, iCloud, and Apple TV. Apple’s more than 150,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth and to leaving the world better than we found it. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Speedometer 3.1 performance benchmark tested with pre-release Safari 26.3 on macOS Tahoe, and both Chrome 144.0.7559.110 and Edge 144.0.3719.104 on Windows 11 Home. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Adobe Photoshop 2026 27.3.0 tested using the following filters and functions: super zoom, depth blur, JPEG artifact removal, style transfer, photo restoration, and landscape mixer. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. Testing was conducted by Apple in January 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD. Wireless web battery life tested by browsing 25 popular websites while connected to Wi-Fi. Video streaming battery life tested with 1080p content in Safari while connected to Wi-Fi. All systems tested with display brightness set to eight clicks from bottom. Battery life varies by use and configuration. See apple.com/batteries for more information. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction MacBook Neo systems with Apple A18 Pro, 6-core CPU, 5-core GPU, 8GB of unified memory, and 256GB SSD, as well as production Intel Core Ultra 5-based PC systems with Intel Graphics, 8GB of RAM, 256GB SSD, and the latest version of Windows 11 Home available at the time of testing. Bestselling PC laptop with the latest shipping Intel Core Ultra 5 processor is based on publicly available sales data over the prior six months. Tested with Affinity v3.0.3.4027 using the built-in benchmark 30000. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Neo. MacBook Neo features two USB-C ports — USB 3 (left) and USB 2 (right). External display connectivity supported on left USB 3 port only. macOS Tahoe is available as a free software update. Some features may not be available in all regions or in all languages. See requirements at apple.com/os/macos . Apple Intelligence is available in beta with support for these languages: English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Japanese, and Korean. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. For feature and language availability and system requirements, see support.apple.com/en-us/121115 . Product recycled or renewable content is the mass of certified recycled material relative to the overall mass of the device, not including packaging or in-box accessories. Comparison excludes accessories. Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Adhesives, inks, and coatings are excluded from calculations. Press Contacts Starlayne Meza Apple starlayne_meza@apple.com Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com More from Apple Newsroom PRESS RELEASE Apple introduces MacBook Pro with all-new M5 Pro and M5 Max March 3, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Apple debuts M5 Pro and M5 Max to supercharge demanding pro workflows March 3, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Apple unveils new Studio Display and all-new Studio Display XDR March 3, 2026 Apple Newsroom The latest news and updates, direct from Apple. Read more Stay up to date with the latest articles from Apple Newsroom. Dismiss Get Notifications Apple Footer  Apple Newsroom Say hello to MacBook Neo Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Card Apple Pay Apple Cash Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for College For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple and Healthcare For Government For Government Apple and Government Shop for Veterans and Military Shop for State and Local Employees Shop for Federal Employees Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Inclusion and Diversity Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain Innovation About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE (1-800-692-7753). United States Español Copyright ©\n\t\t\t\t\n\t\t\t\t2026\n\t\t\t\t Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map",
    "comments": "['List of differences from the MacBook Air:\\n* Only supports 8 GB of unified memory-----* No MagSafe-----* One of the two USB-C ports is limited to USB 2.0 speeds of just 480 Mb/s-----* No Thunderbolt support means the Neo cannot drive either of Apple’s new Studio Displays. However, it can push a 4K display with 60Hz refresh rate over USB-C.-----* “Just” 16 hours of battery life, compared to the 18 hours quoted for the 13-inch MacBook Air-----* Display supports sRGB, but not P3 Wide Color-----* No True Tone-----* 1080p webcam doesn’t support Center Stage-----* No camera notch-----* Dual side-firing speakers, down from four speakers on the Air-----* Does not support Spatial Audio with dynamic head tracking on AirPods-----* Dual-mic system, down from a three-mic system on the Air-----* The 3.5 mm headphone jack does not have support for high-impedance headphones-----* No keyboard backlighting-----* Touch ID not included on base model-----* Trackpad does not support Force Touch-----* Supports Wi-Fi 6E, not 7-----* No fast charging-----* The Apple on the lid isn’t shiny-----https://512pixels.net/2026/03/the-differences-between-the-ma...', 'No one has commented on the charger this thing comes with: It’s 20W! The sort of thing you’d plug a phone or iPad into, which seems crazy. I kind of wonder whether you could charge it with the built-in USB ports that are in newer wall sockets.', \"You forgot an important difference: the macbook neo has the A18 Pro chip (2 performance cores + 4 efficiency cores) whereas the macbook air has the M5 chip (4 performance cores + 6 efficiency cores)-----Also the A18 Pro chip has a 5-core GPU whereas the M5 chip has 8 or 10.-----Personally, the only dealbreaker in the list you posted is the amount of RAM.\\nmacOS 15 uses ~5GB on startup without any app open. I'd be swapping all the time on 8GB of RAM.\", '> macOS 15 uses ~5GB on startup without any app open-----Sort of? Mac very aggressively caches things into RAM. It should be using-----all-----of your RAM on startup. That\\'s why they\\'ve changed the Activity Monitor to say \"memory pressure\" instead of something like \"memory usage.\"-----I\\'m typing this on an 8 GB MacBook Air and it works just fine. I\\'ve got ChatGPT, VSCode, XCode, Blender, and PrusaSlicer minimized and I\\'m not feeling any lag. If I open any of them it\\'ll take half a second or so as they\\'re loaded from swap, but when they\\'re not in the foreground they\\'re not using up any memory.', 'After several days of usage, Activity Monitor will usually shows that \"WindowServer\" is using 6 GB of RAM.-----Yeah, 8 GB RAM does not cut it anymore. At least until Apple start fixing the memory leaks in MacOS.', 'Indeed, as I used to tell my ops colleagues when they pointed to RAM utilization graphs, \"we paid for all of that RAM, why aren\\'t we using it?\"', \"because memory access performance is not O(1) but depends on the size of what's in memory (-----https://www.ilikebigbits.com/2014_04_21_myth_of_ram_1.html-----). Every byte used makes the whole thing slower.\", 'In macOS 15 there are two metrics: \"Memory used\" and \"Cached Files\"-----I\\'m specifically talking about \"Memory used\" here.-----In fact, on my 16GB mac, if I open apps that use ~8GB of RAM (on top of the 5GB I mentioned earlier), it starts swapping.', 'When you open up Activity Monitor, to the immediate left of the \"Memory Used\" and \"Cached Files\" that you see, you\\'ll see the Memory Pressure graph that the guy above is talking about.-----On my 64 GB M1 Macbook Pro right now, I have 53.41 GB of Memory Used and 10.72 GB of Cached Files and 6.08 GB of swap, but Memory Pressure is green and extremely low. On my 8 GB M1 Macbook Air I just bought for OpenClaw, I\\'m at 6.94 GB Memory Used and 1.01 GB of Cached Files with 2.05 GB of Swap Used, and Memory Pressure is medium high at yellow, probably somewhere around 60-70%.-----You can open up the Terminal and run the command memory_pressure to get much more detailed data on what goes into calculating memory pressure - more than just the amount of swap used, it tracks swap I/O and a bunch of page and compressor data to get a more holistic sense of what\\'s going on and how memory starved you\\'re going to feel in practice.-----In any case - I\\'ve been absolutely mindblown at how fast my 3 8GB M1 Macbook Airs I just bought for ~$350 brand new have been - even with tons of Chrome tabs open, multiple terminal windows open, running OpenClaw and Claude Code and VS Code and doing a ton of development and testing, never once have they ever felt slow. Oftentimes they actually feel faster than my 64 GB M1 Macbook Pro, which kind of blows my mind and makes me wonder wtf is going on on my monster machine. Moreover, my M1 Macbook Pro drains battery like crazy and uses a ton of charge, whereas the Macbook Airs stay constantly below 10 watts essentially always and even with Amphetamine keeping them on 24/7, with the display off and being fully on, they\\'ll drop to a single watt of power draw. Truly insane stuff. I\\'ve lost all my concern about RAM, to be honest (which is shocking coming from someone who bought a top of the line maxed out RAM primary machine in 2021 specifically because I felt like RAM was so important)', \">  I've been absolutely mindblown at how fast my 3 8GB M1 Macbook Airs I just bought for ~$350 brand new-----Wait what? How did you manage that?\", 'OpenClaw found some sweet deal? /s', \"Yes, the person you are replying to has explained that.-----The old mental model of how ram and swap works doesn't fit neatly to how modern macos manages ram. 8GB is acceptable, although on the lower end for sure.\", 'How do you define \"swapping?\" Even on Intel Macs, the memory statistics don\\'t map the way one might expect. Be careful when making assumptions about what those metrics actually mean.', 'I mean at that point (13 GB memory used), the \"Swap used\" is at several hundred megabytes.-----And if I more apps (or browser tabs), the \"Swap used\" keeps increasing, and the \"memory pressure\" graph switches color from green to yellow.-----The color of that graph is the indicator I\\'m using to know that I should close my browser tabs :p', 'It also-----compresses-----memory. Many things in ram compress-----really-----well.', 'There\\'s a lot of different kinds of \"using\". \"Memory pressure\" includes some kinds of caching (ie running idle daemons when they could get killed) and not others (file caching). And there are also memory pressure warnings (telling processes to try to use less memory), so there\\'s a lot of feedback mechanisms.-----I don\\'t suggest sitting and looking at Activity Monitor all day. I think that is a weird thing to do as a user. If you would like to do that in an office in Cupertino or San Diego instead then you can probably figure out where to apply.', 'i think the main point that GP was trying to make is that depending on the workload 8gb of memory might not be an issue.-----the keywords here are \"depending on the workload\".-----edit: i was thinking that it\\'s gonna be interesting to see i/o performance on storage, that might end up determining if those 8 gigabytes are actually decent or not.', \"> I'm typing this on an 8 GB MacBook Air and it works just fine.-----Most cool. Is it an M1?\", 'Not the OP, but I have an M1 MBA and it handles light \"coding\" stuff quite well, though haven\\'t tried VSCode+Zoom+bunch of other stuff, as my work laptop is a M1 MBP.', \"Same. I've been programming in Go on an M1 for years and perf is spectacular.\", 'M2', 'What are you slicing?-----What do you find compelling with Prusa slicer over orca slicer?', \"I'm printing a new multi-laptop stand that can accommodate a work laptop I've just received. I've actually never used Orca, PrusaSlicer is the first one I tried and it's done everything I've needed.\", \"> A18 Pro chip (2 performance cores + 4 efficiency cores) whereas the macbook air has the M5 chip-----i don't see the m5 air on geekbench yet, but here are some related numbers for context (sorted by multi ascending):-----| device                      | cpu                                             | single core score | multi core score |\\n    |:----------------------------|:------------------------------------------------|------------------:|-----------------:|\\n    | iPhone 16 Pro Max           | Apple A18 Pro                                   |              3428 |             8531 |\\n    | iPhone 16 Pro               | Apple A18 Pro                                   |              3445 |             8624 |\\n    | MacBook Air (15-inch, 2025) | Apple M4 @ 4.4 GHz (10 CPU cores, 10 GPU cores) |              3708 |            14698 |\\n    | MacBook Air (13-inch, 2025) | Apple M4 @ 4.4 GHz (10 CPU cores, 8 GPU cores)  |              3696 |            14729 |\\n    | MacBook Air (13-inch, 2025) | Apple M4 @ 4.4 GHz (10 CPU cores, 10 GPU cores) |              3696 |            14729 |\\n    | MacBook Pro (14-inch, 2025) | Apple M5 @ 4.6 GHz (10 CPU cores, 10 GPU cores) |              4228 |            17464 |-----https://browser.geekbench.com/ios-benchmarks-----https://browser.geekbench.com/mac-benchmarks\", 'Do we think the iPhone 16 with A18 Pro chips are going to be the same as the A18 in the laptop though?-----When you are not confined to a iPhone body, you have a bit more flexibility in thermals, heat and power consumption.-----Would there be any chance the A18 Pro in a Macbook clocks higher? or maybe clocks higher for longer?', \"Put the M1 in your comparison - I think the A18 Pro compares favorably to it and it's a good baseline for people who bought in on Apple Silicon early and are still using it.\", \">  macOS 15 uses ~5GB on startup without any app open. I'd be swapping all the time on 8GB of RAM.-----I have an older 8GB MacBook I use for testing. It’s actually fine for normal use with a web browser, Visual Studio Code, Slack, and Spotify running. You’d think it would be an unusable mess from the way some people talk about RAM, but modern OSes are good a"
  },
  {
    "title": "Building a new Flash",
    "url": "https://bill.newgrounds.com/news/post/1607118",
    "text": null,
    "comments": "[\"I made Flash Games back in the day. Here's my old profile on Newgrounds:-----https://cableshaft.newgrounds.com/-----One thing Flash had that nothing else has really seemed to replicate as well since, is an environment that both coders and artists could use. I'd collaborate with an artist, they'd make their animations within an FLA, send it to me, and then I'd copy+paste into the project file, and it'd just work. I could even tweak their animations if need be to remove a frame here or there to tighten the animations and make it feel more fluid, etc.-----That being said, I'm not sure I could go back to it now. I've been working with Love2D lately, and I prefer that (especially for the version control). FLA version control was always me going 'GameName-1.fla', 'GameName-2.fla', or when I got a little smarter 'GameName-Date.fla'. Eventually they let you split out the actionscript files into its own files, and that was better for version control, but you still had the binary mess of the FLA file.-----But all these sprite-based game editors just can't handle the crazy intricate animations that vector-based Flash games could handle. Porting one of my old games (Clock Legends) that had hundreds of frames of hand drawn animation for a boss that filled the screen would be ridiculously huge nowadays, but the FLA for that was like 23MB, I believe (I'll need to hunt it down, I have it somewhere), and several MB of that were for the songs in the game.-----Excited for this project though. It deserves to come back in some form.\", 'Thank you for reminding me of the Clock Crew.  The Internet used to be fun.', 'I built a flash crawler to index all Flash while at Adobe. It started with Alexa top 1M I think then crawled. This was 2008-2010 I think so we had to do a lot of custom stuff, but we basically crawled then ran a headless Firefox with a custom headless Flash player that dumped a ton of data so also analyzed every flash at runtime and indexed all of that.-----We built a dedicated cluster in a colocation center in Bucharest to handle all of this. Had issues with max floor weights and what not. Then had to upgrade the RAM on on the cluster. No remote hands. Every operation was a trip to a really cold place.-----Used a lot of early stage stuff like Nutch, Hadoop, HBase etc. Everything was then processed and dumped to an SQL database with a nice UI on top. It took a few weeks to set it up, then we passed it to a team of interns that built the SQL database and UI on top. They learned a ton of stuff. Some are now in the Bay Area.-----The tool uncovered a ton of security issues.-----It was fun building it. I wonder if Adobe kept the data. It could be useful and/or good donation for the Computer History Museum.', \"Thanks for sharing. It's stories like these I've read since childhood that got me into this. Those little adventures into remote places to work on some computers. This was my version of Indiana jones.-----But everyone's in an AWS world right now.\", '> .fla / XFL import — This is the one I’m most proud of. You can open your old Flash files. As far as I know, this is the only open-source tool that functions as a full authoring environment and can actually import .fla files. Not just play them back — edit them.-----The backwards compatibility here is pretty clutch. I agree -- if he can build something that is compatible with old files AND pushes things forward for new, then this could do some really awesome stuff.', 'AFAIK the .fla format was never fully documented or reverse engineered by anyone (FFDEC has an exporter, but not importer), so this alone would be a bold claim.', \"Unless this is open source I don't see the point.-----We can't trust closed source software for content creation tools.-----What happens when he gets bored?-----However, I LOVE C# and would totally be down to contribute if it's open source.\", '\".fla / XFL import — This is the one I’m most proud of. You can open your old Flash files. As far as I know, this is the only open-source tool that functions as a full authoring environment and can actually import .fla files. Not just play them back — edit them.\"-----as to when they share the source, idk!', 'Hype (YC W11) is for animators to produce HTML5-----https://tumult.com/hype/', 'I wish Adobe had open sourced Flash - it really was a pretty amazing tool. They could have owned the proprietary developer tool market to support themselves...', \"They couldn't because it lives on in Adobe Animate which Disney as a customer among others.\", 'Which they have recently said they will be dropping all support for:-----https://community.adobe.com/announcements-539/adobe-animate-...-----A lot of people - including studios who use it for projects that can take-----years-----to complete - were-----very-----unhappy at the prospect of having the only tool that can read their mountains of FLA files (the file format the Flash/Animate editor uses, and used to compile into a SWF) stop working because Adobe turned off the auth servers. Adobe has pulled back to \"okay we\\'re, uh, putting it in maintenance mode, expect no new features, ever, just security patches\".', \"Exciting! But I can't seem to find any where I can take a peek. It looks like a lot of UI is at least there, and the post makes some big promises about what's already done.-----The vector icons in the side bar have the distinct cruft of LLM-generated SVGs, so just ideally hoping it isn't a quickly-made UI shell. The big claims about .fla import make me a bit skeptical. Though even so, we're not owed anything and I think it's a cool idea to share!\", \"May the Gods be with him. The nostalgia is very strong. Opening Flash and start a new project was an immense source of joy to me in the 00's.\", \"This doesn't make it clear how people will run the end products.-----Is it targeting the web? If not then it's not going to be useful for the same things as Flash was.\", \"Apart from the HTML5 export mentioned by another commenter, there exists Ruffle[1], a Rust + WASM reimplementation of Flash that can play swf files. It's used a lot on archive.org or on some websites like-----https://homestarrunner.com-----.-----[1]-----https://ruffle.rs/\", 'It says:-----> HTML5/Canvas export — Export to self-contained HTML5 with JavaScript Canvas 2D playback.', 'Thank you, I missed that. Excellent news!', 'Call me crazy, but I think the folks at newgrounds will figure out what to do with this new flash.', 'They may but note that this isn\\'t an official Newgrounds project - this is just a user (\"Bill\") posting on his own Newgrounds blog that he has made this (its not Newgrounds\\' official blog).', \"Don't know much about this space, just curious why build this when we have Rive, Spline, etc?\", \"Approximately a quarter century of editor UI muscle memory in everyone who's used Flash/Animate professionally. And a quarter century of people being used to the precise quirks of how Flash/Animate organizes the parts for a cartoon. And a quarter century of source files in a private format that can only be read and understood by Flash/Animate.\", 'I feel young again.', \"I remember trying out Macromedia Flash 6.0. My GUI apps were ugly at the time. Learning to build something like I saw in the movies could take years. Then, Flash let me throw together beautiful, animated interfaces like it was nothing. One could do quite a bit after one tutorial.-----(Note: Quick shoutout to Dreamweaver 6.0 which was a power, WYSIWYG editor. Today, things like Pinegrow might fill the niche.)-----It's death as a hugely-popular tool was largely due to Apple and Adobe. SaaS model isn't helping it far as wide adoption goes. It also got popular through piracy which hints the replacement should be profitable and widely deployed like open source.-----I think this might be a good opportunity for a license like PolyForm Non-Commercial. Free users either can't commercialize their content or, like CompCert Compiler, must make the outputs GPL'd (or AGPL'd). The Flash replacement would have a fair, one-time price for unrestricted use with source or you share like they shared with you. What do you all think?\", \"Of the two, I think Adobe is most responsible for the decline of Flash. Even if smartphones had never entered the picture, laptops (where efficiency is important) were quickly becoming the most common form of PC, which would've eventually made Flash as it existed under Adobe untenable as well. The timeline was just accelerated by smartphones.-----Honestly I can't understand the mental calculus that went on in the heads of Adobe execs at the time. Yes, cleaning up the ball of mud that the Flash codebase had become and making it not so battery hungry wouldn't have been an easy task, but it would've futureproofed it significantly. Instead they decided to keep tacking on new features which ended up being entirely the wrong decision.-----EDIT: The constant stream of zero-days certainly didn't help things either. A rewrite would've been worthwhile if only to get a handle on that.\", \"I think Apple is more responsible. One of Flash's chief benefits to the customers who paid the big bucks was that it 'just worked' everywhere. Once Apple stopped supporting Flash on the iPhone, that story was a lot less attractive.-----The bugs were definitely Adobe's fault: as with most tech companies, they were far more interested in expanding the feature set than they were on fixing the bugs and stabilizing the platform.\", 'Flash was not particularly battery hungry (My go to example when HTML 5 demos started coming out was rebuilding a HTML 5 demo that was using 100% of 1 core into a flash app that used 5%).-----The reason it burned CPU cycles is that non-coders could make programs with it and they would produce the world\\'s worst code doing so that \"worked\".  The runtime itself was fine (efficiency wise, not all the other things).', 'The \"pay to sell your work\" model is basically what Autodesk does to provide a version of Fusion that\\'s free/accessible t"
  }
]