[
  {
    "title": "MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max",
    "url": "https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2026/03/apple-introduces-macbook-pro-with-all-new-m5-pro-and-m5-max/",
    "extracted_text": "Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Newsroom Open Newsroom navigation Close Newsroom navigation Apple Services Apple Stories Search Newsroom Close opens in new window PRESS RELEASE March 3, 2026 Apple introduces MacBook Pro with all‑new M5 Pro and M5 Max, delivering breakthrough pro performance and next-level on-device AI The world’s best pro laptop raises the bar again with blazing-fast CPU and GPU performance, plus up to 2x faster SSD speeds and 1TB of starting storage MacBook Pro with the all-new M5 Pro and M5 Max delivers blazing-fast performance and next-level on-device AI. CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA Apple today announced the latest 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with the all-new M5 Pro and M5 Max, bringing game-changing performance and AI capabilities to the world’s best pro laptop. With M5 Pro and M5 Max, MacBook Pro features a new CPU with the world’s fastest CPU core, 1 a next-generation GPU with a Neural Accelerator in each core, and higher unified memory bandwidth, altogether delivering up to 4x AI performance compared to the previous generation, and up to 8x AI performance compared to M1 models. 2 This allows developers, researchers, business professionals, and creatives to unlock new AI-enabled workflows right on MacBook Pro. It now comes with up to 2x faster SSD performance 2 and starts at 1TB of storage for M5 Pro and 2TB for M5 Max. The new MacBook Pro includes N1, an Apple-designed wireless networking chip that enables Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6, bringing improved performance and reliability to wireless connections. It also offers up to 24 hours of battery life; a gorgeous Liquid Retina XDR display with a nano-texture option; a wide array of connectivity, including Thunderbolt 5; a 12MP Center Stage camera; studio-quality mics; an immersive six-speaker sound system; Apple Intelligence features; and the power of macOS Tahoe. The new MacBook Pro comes in space black and silver, and is available to pre-order starting tomorrow, March 4, with availability beginning Wednesday, March 11. “MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max redefines what’s possible on a pro laptop, now up to 4x faster than the previous generation,” said John Ternus, Apple’s senior vice president of Hardware Engineering. “With Neural Accelerators in the GPU, the new MacBook Pro enables professionals to run advanced LLMs on device and unlock capabilities that no other laptop can do — all while maintaining exceptional battery life. Combined with even faster unified memory and storage, it empowers users to take their work even further, unleashing new possibilities and pushing the boundaries of what they can do.” MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max provides tremendous performance boosts, featuring a new CPU with the world’s fastest CPU core, a next-generation GPU with a Neural Accelerator in each core, and higher unified memory bandwidth. Blazing Performance with M5 Pro and M5 Max M5 Pro and M5 Max are built using the new Apple-designed Fusion Architecture and engineered from the ground up for AI. This innovative design combines two dies into a single system on a chip, providing tremendous performance boosts. M5 Pro and M5 Max feature a new up-to-18-core CPU with 6 super cores, the world’s fastest CPU core, 1 and 12 all-new performance cores, optimized for power-efficient, multithreaded pro workloads — altogether delivering up to 30 percent faster performance. 3 M5 Pro is designed for users running complex workflows, like coders optimizing algorithms and photographers processing massive image libraries, while M5 Max is for those pushing the absolute limits, such as engineers running rigorous simulations. MacBook Pro shows an LM Studio screen. MacBook Pro shows a QuPath screen. On the new MacBook Pro, LLMs will run even faster in popular apps like LM Studio. On the new MacBook Pro, image analysis will run even faster in popular apps like QuPath. previous next Scaling up performance from M5 and offering the same breakthrough GPU architecture with a Neural Accelerator in each core, M5 Pro and M5 Max deliver up to 4x faster LLM prompt processing than M4 Pro and M4 Max, and up to 8x AI image generation than M1 Pro and M1 Max. 2 This enables AI researchers and developers to train custom models locally, and creative professionals to leverage AI-powered tools for video editing, music production, and design work. Both chips also bring up to a 50 percent increase in graphics performance compared to M4 Pro and M4 Max, 3,4 enabling motion designers to work with complex 3D scenes in real time and VFX artists to preview effects instantly. And with a faster and more power-efficient Neural Engine and higher unified memory bandwidth, the new MacBook Pro delivers incredible on-device AI capabilities. The increase in unified memory bandwidth enables complex workflows like intensive AI model training and massive video projects. M5 Pro supports up to 64GB of unified memory with up to 307GB/s of memory bandwidth, while M5 Max supports up to 128GB of unified memory with up to 614GB/s of memory bandwidth. MacBook Pro shows a video-editing screen in NukeX. MacBook Pro shows a music production screen in Avid Pro Tools. MacBook Pro shows a building rendering in Vectorworks. With the power of M5 Pro and M5 Max on MacBook Pro, AI researchers and developers can train custom models locally, and creative professionals are able to leverage AI-powered tools for video editing, music production, and design work. With the power of M5 Pro and M5 Max on MacBook Pro, AI researchers and developers can train custom models locally, and creative professionals are able to leverage AI-powered tools for video editing, music production, and design work. With the power of M5 Pro and M5 Max on MacBook Pro, AI researchers and developers can train custom models locally, and creative professionals are able to leverage AI-powered tools for video editing, music production, and design work. previous next 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro deliver: 2 Up to 7.8x faster AI image generation performance when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 3.7x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 6.9x faster LLM prompt processing when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 3.9x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 5.2x faster 3D rendering in Maxon Redshift when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 1.4x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 1.6x faster gaming performance with ray tracing in games like Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition when compared to MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max deliver: 2 Up to 8x faster AI image generation performance when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 3.8x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 6.7x faster LLM prompt processing when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 4x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 5.4x faster video effects rendering performance in Blackmagic DaVinci Resolve Studio when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 3x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 3.5x faster AI video-enhancing performance in Topaz Video when compared to MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Faster Storage Performance and Increased Starting Storage The new MacBook Pro delivers up to 2x faster read/write performance compared to the previous generation, 4 reaching speeds of up to 14.5GB/s 5 and accelerating workflows for professionals working across 4K and 8K video projects, LLMs, and complex datasets. MacBook Pro with M5 Pro now comes standard with 1TB of storage, while MacBook Pro with M5 Max now comes standard with 2TB. And the 14-inch MacBook Pro with M5 now comes standard with 1TB of storage. With up to 2x faster read/write performance, reaching speeds of up to 14.5GB/s, the new MacBook Pro accelerates workflows for professionals working across 4K and 8K video projects. Even More Value for Upgraders The new 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max mark a major leap for pro users. There’s never been a better time for customers to upgrade from a previous generation of MacBook Pro with Apple silicon or an Intel-based Mac. Enhanced AI performance with Neural Accelerators in the GPU : Users upgrading from M1 models will experience up to 8x faster AI performance. 2 Exceptional battery life : The new MacBook Pro gets up to 24 hours of battery life, giving Intel-based upgraders up to 13 additional hours, and users coming from M1 models will get up to three more hours, so they can get more done on a single charge. 2 And unlike many PC laptops, MacBook Pro delivers the same incredible performance whether plugged in or on battery. Users will be able to fast-charge up to 50 percent in just 30 minutes using a 96W or higher USB-C power adapter. 2 Best display in a pro laptop : Upgraders will enjoy the Liquid Retina XDR display, which features 1600 nits peak HDR brightness and up to 1000 nits for SDR content, and offers a nano-texture option. Comprehensive connectivity : The new MacBook Pro has a wide array of connectivity options, including three Thunderbolt 5 ports for high-speed data transfer, HDMI that supports up to 8K resolution, an SDXC card slot for quick media import, and MagSafe 3 with fast-charge capability. Upgraders can also drive up to two high-resolution external displays with M5 Pro, and up to four high-resolution displays with M5 Max, providing the flexibility to create expansive workspaces. Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6 : With the Apple N1 chip, Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6 bring improved performance and reliability to wireless connections. Advanced camera, mics, and speakers : Featuring a 12MP Center Stage camera with Desk View support and studio-quality mics, the new MacBook Pro will allow users to look and sound their best while taking calls. They will also experience an immersive six-speaker sound system with support for Spatial Audio. A MacBook Pro user sits outside with a telescope under a starry night’s sky. MacBook Pro shows a colorful screen with a crowd of people wearing vibrant clothes. A MacBook Pro user works at their desk with two external displays. The new MacBook Pro delivers up to a phenomenal 24 hours of battery life, so upgraders can take their pro workflows anywhere. The gorgeous Liquid Retina XDR display delivers 1600 nits peak HDR brightness and up to 1000 nits for SDR content for stunning visuals. The new MacBook Pro can drive up to two high-resolution external displays with M5 Pro, and up to four high-resolution displays with M5 Max, providing the flexibility to create expansive workspaces. previous next An Unrivaled Experience with macOS Tahoe macOS Tahoe transforms the MacBook Pro experience with powerful capabilities that turbocharge productivity. 6 Major updates to Spotlight make it easier to find relevant apps and files and immediately take action right from the search bar. Apple Intelligence is even more capable while protecting users’ privacy at every step. 7 Shortcuts get even more powerful with intelligent actions and the ability to tap directly in to Apple Intelligence models. Integrated into Messages, FaceTime, and the Phone app, Live Translation helps users easily communicate across languages, translating text and audio. 7 Additionally, developers can bring Apple Intelligence capabilities into their applications or tap in to the Foundation Models framework for specialized on-device intelligence tasks. Continuity features include the Phone app on Mac, which lets users relay cellular calls from their nearby iPhone, and with Live Activities from iPhone, they can stay on top of things happening in real time. 6 macOS Tahoe also features a beautiful new design with Liquid Glass, and users can personalize their Mac in even more ways with an updated Control Center, in addition to new color options for folders, app icons, and widgets. MacBook Pro and the Environment MacBook Pro was built with the environment in mind, and brings Apple even closer to reaching its ambitious plan to be carbon neutral across its entire footprint by 2030. It is made with 45 percent recycled content, 8 including 100 percent recycled aluminum in the enclosure and 100 percent recycled cobalt in the battery. It is manufactured with 50 percent renewable electricity, such as wind and solar, across the supply chain. The new MacBook Pro is designed to be durable and repairable, and also offers industry-leading software support, while meeting Apple’s high standards for energy efficiency and safer chemistry. The paper packaging is 100 percent fiber-based and can be easily recycled. 9 Pricing and Availability Customers can pre-order the new 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro models with M5 Pro and M5 Max starting tomorrow, March 4, on apple.com/store and in the Apple Store app in 33 countries and regions, including the U.S. All models will begin arriving to customers, and will be in Apple Store locations and Apple Authorized Resellers, starting Wednesday, March 11. The 14‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro starts at $2,199 (U.S.) and $2,049 (U.S.) for education; and the 16‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro starts at $2,699 (U.S.) and $2,499 (U.S.) for education. The 14‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max starts at $3,599 (U.S.) and $3,299 (U.S.) for education; and the 16‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max starts at $3,899 (U.S.) and $3,599 (U.S.) for education. All models are available in space black and silver. Additional technical specifications, configure-to-order options, and accessories are available at apple.com/mac . The 14-inch MacBook Pro with M5 now comes standard with 1TB of storage, and is available in space black and silver, starting at $1,699 (U.S.) and $1,599 (U.S.) for education. With Apple Trade In, customers can trade in their current computer and get credit toward a new Mac. Customers can visit apple.com/shop/trade-in to see what their device is worth. AppleCare delivers exceptional service and support, with flexible options for Apple users. Customers can choose AppleCare+ to cover their new Mac, or in the U.S., AppleCare One to protect multiple products in one simple plan. Both plans include coverage for accidents like drops and spills, theft and loss protection on eligible products, battery replacement service, and 24/7 support from Apple Experts. For more information, visit apple.com/applecare . Every customer who buys directly from Apple Retail gets access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk them through setup or focus on features that will help them make the most of their new device. Customers can also learn more about getting started and going further with their new device with a Today at Apple session at their nearest Apple Store. Customers in the U.S. who shop at Apple using Apple Card can pay monthly at 0 percent APR when they choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments, and they’ll get 3 percent Daily Cash back — all up front. More information — including details on eligibility, exclusions, and Apple Card terms — is available at apple.com/apple-card/monthly-installments . Share article Media Text of this article March 3, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Apple introduces MacBook Pro with all‑new M5 Pro and M5 Max, delivering breakthrough pro performance and next-level on-device AI The world’s best pro laptop raises the bar again with blazing-fast CPU and GPU performance, plus up to 2x faster SSD speeds and 1TB of starting storage CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA Apple today announced the latest 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with the all-new M5 Pro and M5 Max, bringing game-changing performance and AI capabilities to the world’s best pro laptop. With M5 Pro and M5 Max, MacBook Pro features a new CPU with the world’s fastest CPU core, 1 a next-generation GPU with a Neural Accelerator in each core, and higher unified memory bandwidth, altogether delivering up to 4x AI performance compared to the previous generation, and up to 8x AI performance compared to M1 models. 2 This allows developers, researchers, business professionals, and creatives to unlock new AI-enabled workflows right on MacBook Pro. It now comes with up to 2x faster SSD performance 2 and starts at 1TB of storage for M5 Pro and 2TB for M5 Max. The new MacBook Pro includes N1, an Apple-designed wireless networking chip that enables Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6, bringing improved performance and reliability to wireless connections. It also offers up to 24 hours of battery life; a gorgeous Liquid Retina XDR display with a nano-texture option; a wide array of connectivity, including Thunderbolt 5; a 12MP Center Stage camera; studio-quality mics; an immersive six-speaker sound system; Apple Intelligence features; and the power of macOS Tahoe. The new MacBook Pro comes in space black and silver, and is available to pre-order starting tomorrow, March 4, with availability beginning Wednesday, March 11. “MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max redefines what’s possible on a pro laptop, now up to 4x faster than the previous generation,” said John Ternus, Apple’s senior vice president of Hardware Engineering. “With Neural Accelerators in the GPU, the new MacBook Pro enables professionals to run advanced LLMs on device and unlock capabilities that no other laptop can do — all while maintaining exceptional battery life. Combined with even faster unified memory and storage, it empowers users to take their work even further, unleashing new possibilities and pushing the boundaries of what they can do.” Blazing Performance with M5 Pro and M5 Max M5 Pro and M5 Max are built using the new Apple-designed Fusion Architecture and engineered from the ground up for AI. This innovative design combines two dies into a single system on a chip, providing tremendous performance boosts. M5 Pro and M5 Max feature a new up-to-18-core CPU with 6 super cores, the world’s fastest CPU core, 1 and 12 all-new performance cores, optimized for power-efficient, multithreaded pro workloads — altogether delivering up to 30 percent faster performance. 3 M5 Pro is designed for users running complex workflows, like coders optimizing algorithms and photographers processing massive image libraries, while M5 Max is for those pushing the absolute limits, such as engineers running rigorous simulations. Scaling up performance from M5 and offering the same breakthrough GPU architecture with a Neural Accelerator in each core, M5 Pro and M5 Max deliver up to 4x faster LLM prompt processing than M4 Pro and M4 Max, and up to 8x AI image generation than M1 Pro and M1 Max. 2 This enables AI researchers and developers to train custom models locally, and creative professionals to leverage AI-powered tools for video editing, music production, and design work. Both chips also bring up to a 50 percent increase in graphics performance compared to M4 Pro and M4 Max, 3,4 enabling motion designers to work with complex 3D scenes in real time and VFX artists to preview effects instantly. And with a faster and more power-efficient Neural Engine and higher unified memory bandwidth, the new MacBook Pro delivers incredible on-device AI capabilities. The increase in unified memory bandwidth enables complex workflows like intensive AI model training and massive video projects. M5 Pro supports up to 64GB of unified memory with up to 307GB/s of memory bandwidth, while M5 Max supports up to 128GB of unified memory with up to 614GB/s of memory bandwidth. 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro deliver: 2 Up to 7.8x faster AI image generation performance when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 3.7x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 6.9x faster LLM prompt processing when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 3.9x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 5.2x faster 3D rendering in Maxon Redshift when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Pro, and up to 1.4x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. Up to 1.6x faster gaming performance with ray tracing in games like Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition when compared to MacBook Pro with M4 Pro. 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max deliver: 2 Up to 8x faster AI image generation performance when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 3.8x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 6.7x faster LLM prompt processing when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 4x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 5.4x faster video effects rendering performance in Blackmagic DaVinci Resolve Studio when compared to MacBook Pro with M1 Max, and up to 3x faster than MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Up to 3.5x faster AI video-enhancing performance in Topaz Video when compared to MacBook Pro with M4 Max. Faster Storage Performance and Increased Starting Storage The new MacBook Pro delivers up to 2x faster read/write performance compared to the previous generation, 4 reaching speeds of up to 14.5GB/s 5 and accelerating workflows for professionals working across 4K and 8K video projects, LLMs, and complex datasets. MacBook Pro with M5 Pro now comes standard with 1TB of storage, while MacBook Pro with M5 Max now comes standard with 2TB. And the 14-inch MacBook Pro with M5 now comes standard with 1TB of storage. Even More Value for Upgraders The new 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro and M5 Max mark a major leap for pro users. There’s never been a better time for customers to upgrade from a previous generation of MacBook Pro with Apple silicon or an Intel-based Mac. Enhanced AI performance with Neural Accelerators in the GPU : Users upgrading from M1 models will experience up to 8x faster AI performance. 2 Exceptional battery life : The new MacBook Pro gets up to 24 hours of battery life, giving Intel-based upgraders up to 13 additional hours, and users coming from M1 models will get up to three more hours, so they can get more done on a single charge. 2 And unlike many PC laptops, MacBook Pro delivers the same incredible performance whether plugged in or on battery. Users will be able to fast-charge up to 50 percent in just 30 minutes using a 96W or higher USB-C power adapter. 2 Best display in a pro laptop : Upgraders will enjoy the Liquid Retina XDR display, which features 1600 nits peak HDR brightness and up to 1000 nits for SDR content, and offers a nano-texture option. Comprehensive connectivity : The new MacBook Pro has a wide array of connectivity options, including three Thunderbolt 5 ports for high-speed data transfer, HDMI that supports up to 8K resolution, an SDXC card slot for quick media import, and MagSafe 3 with fast-charge capability. Upgraders can also drive up to two high-resolution external displays with M5 Pro, and up to four high-resolution displays with M5 Max, providing the flexibility to create expansive workspaces. Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6 : With the Apple N1 chip, Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6 bring improved performance and reliability to wireless connections. Advanced camera, mics, and speakers : Featuring a 12MP Center Stage camera with Desk View support and studio-quality mics, the new MacBook Pro will allow users to look and sound their best while taking calls. They will also experience an immersive six-speaker sound system with support for Spatial Audio. An Unrivaled Experience with macOS Tahoe macOS Tahoe transforms the MacBook Pro experience with powerful capabilities that turbocharge productivity. 6 Major updates to Spotlight make it easier to find relevant apps and files and immediately take action right from the search bar. Apple Intelligence is even more capable while protecting users’ privacy at every step. 7 Shortcuts get even more powerful with intelligent actions and the ability to tap directly in to Apple Intelligence models. Integrated into Messages, FaceTime, and the Phone app, Live Translation helps users easily communicate across languages, translating text and audio. 7 Additionally, developers can bring Apple Intelligence capabilities into their applications or tap in to the Foundation Models framework for specialized on-device intelligence tasks. Continuity features include the Phone app on Mac, which lets users relay cellular calls from their nearby iPhone, and with Live Activities from iPhone, they can stay on top of things happening in real time. 6 macOS Tahoe also features a beautiful new design with Liquid Glass, and users can personalize their Mac in even more ways with an updated Control Center, in addition to new color options for folders, app icons, and widgets. MacBook Pro and the Environment MacBook Pro was built with the environment in mind, and brings Apple even closer to reaching its ambitious plan to be carbon neutral across its entire footprint by 2030. It is made with 45 percent recycled content, 8 including 100 percent recycled aluminum in the enclosure and 100 percent recycled cobalt in the battery. It is manufactured with 50 percent renewable electricity, such as wind and solar, across the supply chain. The new MacBook Pro is designed to be durable and repairable, and also offers industry-leading software support, while meeting Apple’s high standards for energy efficiency and safer chemistry. The paper packaging is 100 percent fiber-based and can be easily recycled. 9 Pricing and Availability Customers can pre-order the new 14- and 16-inch MacBook Pro models with M5 Pro and M5 Max starting tomorrow, March 4, on apple.com/store and in the Apple Store app in 33 countries and regions, including the U.S. All models will begin arriving to customers, and will be in Apple Store locations and Apple Authorized Resellers, starting Wednesday, March 11. The 14‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro starts at $2,199 (U.S.) and $2,049 (U.S.) for education; and the 16‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Pro starts at $2,699 (U.S.) and $2,499 (U.S.) for education. The 14‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max starts at $3,599 (U.S.) and $3,299 (U.S.) for education; and the 16‑inch MacBook Pro with M5 Max starts at $3,899 (U.S.) and $3,599 (U.S.) for education. All models are available in space black and silver. Additional technical specifications, configure-to-order options, and accessories are available at apple.com/mac . The 14-inch MacBook Pro with M5 now comes standard with 1TB of storage, and is available in space black and silver, starting at $1,699 (U.S.) and $1,599 (U.S.) for education. With Apple Trade In, customers can trade in their current computer and get credit toward a new Mac. Customers can visit apple.com/shop/trade-in to see what their device is worth. AppleCare delivers exceptional service and support, with flexible options for Apple users. Customers can choose AppleCare+ to cover their new Mac, or in the U.S., AppleCare One to protect multiple products in one simple plan. Both plans include coverage for accidents like drops and spills, theft and loss protection on eligible products, battery replacement service, and 24/7 support from Apple Experts. For more information, visit apple.com/applecare . Every customer who buys directly from Apple Retail gets access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk them through setup or focus on features that will help them make the most of their new device. Customers can also learn more about getting started and going further with their new device with a Today at Apple session at their nearest Apple Store. Customers in the U.S. who shop at Apple using Apple Card can pay monthly at 0 percent APR when they choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments, and they’ll get 3 percent Daily Cash back — all up front. More information — including details on eligibility, exclusions, and Apple Card terms — is available at apple.com/apple-card/monthly-installments . About Apple Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, AirPods, Apple Watch, and Apple Vision Pro. Apple’s six software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, visionOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, iCloud, and Apple TV. Apple’s more than 150,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth and to leaving the world better than we found it. Testing was conducted by Apple in February 2026 using shipping competitive systems and select industry-standard benchmarks. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026. See apple.com/macbook-pro for more information. Results are compared to previous-generation 16-inch MacBook Pro with Apple M4 Pro, 14-core CPU, 20-core GPU, 48GB of unified memory, and a 4TB SSD. Results are compared to previous-generation 16-inch MacBook Pro with Apple M4 Max, 16-core CPU, 40-core GPU, 128GB of unified memory, and an 8TB SSD. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction 16-inch MacBook Pro systems with Apple M5 Max, 18-core CPU, 40-core GPU, 128GB of unified memory, and an 8TB SSD. Tested with FIO 3.41, 1024KB request size, 10GB test file and IO depth=8. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Pro. macOS Tahoe is available as a free software update. Some features may not be available in all regions or in all languages. See requirements at apple.com/os/macos . Apple Intelligence is available in beta with support for these languages: English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Japanese, and Korean. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. For feature and language availability and system requirements, see support.apple.com/en-us/121115 . Product recycled or renewable content is the mass of certified recycled material relative to the overall mass of the device, not including packaging or in-box accessories. Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Adhesives, inks, and coatings are excluded from calculations. Press Contacts Lizette Viviana Du Pond Apple ldupond@apple.com Starlayne Meza Apple starlayne_meza@apple.com Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com Copy text Media in this article Download all images About Apple Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac, AirPods, Apple Watch, and Apple Vision Pro. Apple’s six software platforms — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, visionOS, and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, iCloud, and Apple TV. Apple’s more than 150,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth and to leaving the world better than we found it. Testing was conducted by Apple in February 2026 using shipping competitive systems and select industry-standard benchmarks. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026. See apple.com/macbook-pro for more information. Results are compared to previous-generation 16-inch MacBook Pro with Apple M4 Pro, 14-core CPU, 20-core GPU, 48GB of unified memory, and a 4TB SSD. Results are compared to previous-generation 16-inch MacBook Pro with Apple M4 Max, 16-core CPU, 40-core GPU, 128GB of unified memory, and an 8TB SSD. Testing was conducted by Apple in January and February 2026 using preproduction 16-inch MacBook Pro systems with Apple M5 Max, 18-core CPU, 40-core GPU, 128GB of unified memory, and an 8TB SSD. Tested with FIO 3.41, 1024KB request size, 10GB test file and IO depth=8. Performance tests are conducted using specific computer systems and reflect the approximate performance of MacBook Pro. macOS Tahoe is available as a free software update. Some features may not be available in all regions or in all languages. See requirements at apple.com/os/macos . Apple Intelligence is available in beta with support for these languages: English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Japanese, and Korean. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. For feature and language availability and system requirements, see support.apple.com/en-us/121115 . Product recycled or renewable content is the mass of certified recycled material relative to the overall mass of the device, not including packaging or in-box accessories. Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Adhesives, inks, and coatings are excluded from calculations. Press Contacts Lizette Viviana Du Pond Apple ldupond@apple.com Starlayne Meza Apple starlayne_meza@apple.com Apple Media Helpline media.help@apple.com More from Apple Newsroom PRESS RELEASE Apple introduces the new MacBook Air with M5 March 3, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Apple debuts M5 Pro and M5 Max to supercharge demanding pro workflows March 3, 2026 PRESS RELEASE Apple unveils new Studio Display and all-new Studio Display XDR March 3, 2026 Apple Newsroom The latest news and updates, direct from Apple. Read more Stay up to date with the latest articles from Apple Newsroom. Dismiss Get Notifications Apple Footer  Apple Newsroom Apple introduces MacBook Pro with all-new M5 Pro and M5 Max Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Card Apple Pay Apple Cash Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for College For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple and Healthcare For Government For Government Apple and Government Shop for Veterans and Military Shop for State and Local Employees Shop for Federal Employees Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Inclusion and Diversity Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain Innovation About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE (1-800-692-7753). United States Español Copyright ©\n\t\t\t\t\n\t\t\t\t2026\n\t\t\t\t Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map"
  },
  {
    "title": "Intel's make-or-break 18A process node debuts for data center with 288-core Xeon",
    "url": "https://www.tomshardware.com/pc-components/cpus/intels-make-or-break-18a-process-node-debuts-for-data-center-with-288-core-xeon-6-cpu-multi-chip-monster-sports-12-channels-of-ddr5-8000-foveros-direct-3d-packaging-tech",
    "extracted_text": "Skip to main content Open menu Tom's Hardware US Edition UK US Australia Canada RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Tom's Hardware Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs CPU Brands AMD Ryzen Intel Lunar Lake Nvidia Qualcomm Apple Benchmarking Platforms X86 ARM Panther Lake Zen 5 AM5 Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia Geforce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Snapdragon X Benchmarking Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM Drivers PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Radeon Microsoft TSMC Ryzen IBM Newsletter Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks MacBooks Laptop Brands Asus Razer HP MSI Desktops PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Alienware Corsair GeForce Intel Arc Gigabyte Acer Software & AI Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons More Premium Forums home Best Picks View Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs View CPUs CPU Brands AMD Ryzen Intel Lunar Lake Nvidia Qualcomm Apple Benchmarking Platforms X86 ARM Panther Lake Zen 5 AM5 Chipmaking View Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals GPUs View GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia Geforce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Snapdragon X Benchmarking Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM Drivers PC Components View PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage View Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling View Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking View Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News View News Tech Industry News View Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Radeon Microsoft TSMC Ryzen IBM Newsletter Laptops View Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks MacBooks Laptop Brands Asus Razer HP MSI Desktops View Desktops PC Building View PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors View Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals View Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Alienware Corsair GeForce Intel Arc Gigabyte Acer Software & AI View Software & AI Artificial Intelligence View Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs View LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems View Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software View Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons View Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons View Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons View Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons View Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons View Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons Premium Forums Don't miss these CPUs The Best CPU for Gaming in 2026 CPUs AMD Ryzen 7 9850X3D vs Intel Core i9-14900K faceoff CPUs CPU Benchmarks and Hierarchy 2026: CPU Rankings CPUs Intel mobile CPUs have achieved up to 95x performance uplift over the past two decades Laptops Nvidia's Chinese competitor Moore Threads launches new \"MTT AI Book\" laptop featuring custom 12-core Arm chip CPUs AMD details Ryzen AI 400 desktop with up to 8 cores, Radeon 860M graphics CPUs Intel Bartlett Lake-S CPUs reportedly wield 12 blazing P-cores and 5.8 GHz boost CPUs AMD Zen 6 and Intel Nova Lake CPUs reportedly arriving late, delayed to CES 2027 Artificial Intelligence Sambanova introduces new AI accelerator, partners with Intel to deploy Xeon CPUs for inferencing and agentic workloads CPUs Intel preps CPUs with 'Unified Core' architecture — job listing hints at evolution beyond Intel's hybrid design CPUs AMD's next-gen Ryzen 10000 desktop CPUs are rumored to range from 6 to 24 cores CPUs Intel Core i7-14700K vs Intel Core Ultra 7 265K Faceoff CPUs Intel doubles down on gaming with Panther Lake, claims 76% faster gaming performance CPUs Intel returns to boxed workstation CPUs with Xeon 600 — Granite Rapids WS delivers up to 86 cores, 4TB of memory, and 128 PCIe 5 lanes CPUs AMD's Ryzen AI 400 series includes the first Copilot+ desktop CPU Trending 🔥TH Premium Deal RAM Shortage RAM Combo Deals Intel Xeon 600 Panther Lake Where to Buy 9850X3D Ryzen AI 400 PC Components CPUs Intel's make-or-break 18A process node debuts for data center with 288-core Xeon 6+ CPU — multi-chip monster sports 12 channels of DDR5-8000, Foveros Direct 3D packaging tech News By Anton Shilov published 3 March 2026 Intel unveils x86 CPU with the industry's highest core count. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Intel) Copy link Facebook X Whatsapp Reddit Pinterest Flipboard Email Share this article 15 Join the conversation Follow us Add us as a preferred source on Google Newsletter Tom's Hardware Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful An account already exists for this email address, please log in. Subscribe to our newsletter Intel this week formally introduced its Xeon 6+ processors codenamed 'Clearwater Forest' that pack up to 288 energy-efficient Darkmont cores and are the first data center CPUs made on the company's 18A fabrication process (1.8nm-class). Intel aims its Xeon 6+ 'Clearwater Forest' processors primarily for telecom, cloud, and edge AI workloads as they feature Advanced Matrix Extensions (AMX), QuickAssist Technology (QAT), and Intel vRAN Boost technologies. Go deeper with TH Premium: CPU (Image credit: Tom's Hardware) CPU scaling with DLSS Ryzen to the top: How AMD innovated in the gaming CPU market How ARM is working its way into PCs AMD CES 2026 gaming trends press Q&A roundtable transcript Intel's Xeon 6+ processors with up to 288 cores combine 12 compute chiplets containing 24 energy-efficient Darkmont cores per tile that are produced using 18A manufacturing technology, two I/O tiles made on Intel 7 production node, as well as three active base tiles made on Intel 3 fabrication process. The compute tiles are stacked on top of the base dies using Intel's Foveros Direct 3D technology, whereas lateral connections are enabled by Intel's EMIB bridges. Image 1 of 2 (Image credit: Intel) (Image credit: Intel) Intel's 'Darkmont' efficiency cores have received rather meaningful microarchitectural upgrades. Each core integrates a 64 KB L1 instruction cache, a broader fetch and decode pipeline, and a deeper out-of-order engine capable of tracking more in-flight operations. The number of execution ports has also been increased in a bid to improve both scalar and vector throughput under heavily threaded server workloads. You may like Benchmarks of Performance-core only Bartlett Lake CPU emerge Intel Bartlett Lake-S CPUs reportedly wield 12 blazing P-cores and 5.8 GHz boost Intel returns to boxed workstation CPUs with Xeon 600 — Granite Rapids WS delivers up to 86 cores, 4TB of memory, and 128 PCIe 5 lanes From a cache hierarchy standpoint, the design groups cores into four-core blocks that share approximately 4 MB of L2 cache per block. As a result, the aggregate last-level cache across the full package surpasses 1 GB, roughly 1,152 MB in total. This unusually large pool is intended to keep data close to hundreds of active cores and reduce dependence on external memory bandwidth, which in turn is meant to both increase performance and lower power consumption. Platform-wise, the processor remains drop-in compatible with the current Xeon server socket, so the CPU has 12 memory channels that support DDR5-8000, 96 PCIe 5.0 lanes with 64 lanes supporting CXL 2.0. (Image credit: Intel) Intel positions Clearwater Forest for telecom and cloud workloads. The company says operators deploying 5G Advanced and future 6G networks increasingly rely on server CPUs for virtualized RAN and edge AI inference, as they do not want to re-architect their data centers in a bid to accommodate AI accelerators. By combining matrix/vector acceleration, vRAN offloads (using the vRAN Boost), large caches, and broad I/O in one platform, the CPU can perform jobs that are normally reserved for various accelerators that consume more power and take up space. Also, extreme core count of Xeon 6+ 'Clearwater Forest' CPUs — that approaches 288 cores for uniprocessor configurations and 576 cores in dual socket configurations, enabling a single server to host dozens or even hundreds of virtual machines while maintaining power efficiency and low latency. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Systems based on Intel's Xeon 6+ processors will be available later this year. Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News , or add us as a preferred source , to get our latest news, analysis, & reviews in your feeds. TOPICS Intel Xeon See all comments (15) Anton Shilov Social Links Navigation Contributing Writer Anton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends. Read more Benchmarks of Performance-core only Bartlett Lake CPU emerge Intel Bartlett Lake-S CPUs reportedly wield 12 blazing P-cores and 5.8 GHz boost Intel returns to boxed workstation CPUs with Xeon 600 — Granite Rapids WS delivers up to 86 cores, 4TB of memory, and 128 PCIe 5 lanes Intel's upcoming Core Ultra 9 mobile CPU outperforms most desktop counterparts in new benchmark Amazon unveils 192-core Graviton5 CPU with massive 180 MB L3 cache in tow Intel displays tech to build extreme multi-chiplet packages 12 times the size of the largest AI processors, beating TSMC's biggest Latest in CPUs Intel Chairman Frank Yeary retires, Craig Barrat to become the new chairman of the Board of Directors AMD details Ryzen AI 400 desktop with up to 8 cores, Radeon 860M graphics Intel mobile CPUs have achieved up to 95x performance uplift over the past two decades AMD’s K6-III ‘Sharptooth’ debuted this week in 1999 with on-die L2 cache to savage the Intel Pentium II Behind the scenes of our massive CPU retest for Bench — testing at 1080p, choosing new apps, and gathering data for a decade of CPUs Testing CPU scaling in Resident Evil Requiem Latest in News Seagate begins shipping 44TB hard drives with HAMR tech to data centers AI memory crunch forces DRAM market into 'hourly pricing' model, report claims Intel's make-or-break 18A process node debuts for data center with 288-core Xeon 6+ CPU Nvidia RTX 5070 mobile GPU looks set to get more VRAM despite global memory crisis Apple's new MacBook Air gets M5 and doubles starting storage Drones attack several AWS Middle East region data centers amid Iran war, leading to outages 15 Comments Comment from the forums bit_user Last things first: The article said: Systems based on Intel's Xeon 6+ processors will be available later this year. Okay, so not a launch, but rather just a formal announcement. The article said: From a cache hierarchy standpoint, the design groups cores into four-core blocks that share approximately 4 MB of L2 cache per block. As a result, the aggregate last-level cache across the full package surpasses 1 GB \"as a result\" ?? No, 4 MB per 4 cores = 1 MB per core. So, the total amount of L2 cache is just 288 MB. I have seen where it has 1152 of last level cache, but the way it's written makes it sound like you're just talking about L2. The article said: Intel aims its Xeon 6+ 'Clearwater Forest' processors primarily for telecom, cloud, and edge AI workloads as they feature Advanced Matrix Extensions (AMX) Wait, this has AMX?? Or, is it just the Diamond Rapids members of the family that would have that? I'd be rather surprised if Clearwater Forest has AMX, since that adds a non-trivial amount of die area per core. Also, what about AVX-512? Reply bit_user So, reviewing what they've previously disclosed about, I see that mentions of AMX, AVX-512, and AVX10 are conspicuously absent. https://www.tomshardware.com/desktops/servers/intel-reveals-288-core-xeon Another downside is that it's still PCIe 5.0-based (and CXL 2.0). By contrast, AMD's Venice, probably launching around the same time, is moving up to PCIe 6.0 / CXL 3.0. Here are some other juicy tidbits, from the above article (17% IPC boost on SPECint!): Reply abufrejoval Funny how that piece of exciting news is so utterly boring to me, not just as a consumer, but also as a former technical architect. The scale you need to make these worth having is so far beyond anything a technically minded individual might be responsible for, it can really only appeal to bean-counters, or perhaps a very abstract mind. I've thrived on hands-on and the confidence I had after trying to break things. Breaking these would be way above my pay grade, so you'd have to use blind faith. That turns to cause bigger messes, not guarantee fewer. Reply abufrejoval bit_user said: So, reviewing what they've previously disclosed about, I see that mentions of AMX, AVX-512, and AVX10 are conspicuously absent. These aren't meant to replace P-core Xeons, but front-end ARMs. I'd have been surprised to see AMX there, not even sure there is much of any floating-point in front-ends. Quite honestly it's the kind of workload I'd have expected to move into network ASICs as IP blocks, but that's a hosting customer decision and I'm not sure which hyperscalers expose programmable fabrics today to customers. Reply abufrejoval I am a bit sceptic when it comes to this giagantism. On one hand, even chips much bigger are likely to never catch everyones scale-up requirements, so scale-out needs to be part of the design anyway. When you do scale-out, putting more eggs in a basket creates a conflict between the cost of consolidation vs the cost of administering more instances. Finding that sweet spot won't be easy and you may need to maintain that across several generations outside a physical server, since complete slash-and burn or green-field deployments aren't normal beyond the 1st build-out. Well good thing, that's no longer my job! Reply bit_user abufrejoval said: These aren't meant to replace P-core Xeons, but front-end ARMs. The article pretty clearly indicated they had it, which is why I was searching for confirmation. abufrejoval said: not even sure there is much of any floating-point in front-ends. Yes, there very much is! Vector/FP is the area where Skymont improved the most over Crestmont/Gracemont, and even those had AVX2. Reply bit_user abufrejoval said: I am a bit sceptic when it comes to this giagantism. On one hand, even chips much bigger are likely to never catch everyones scale-up requirements, so scale-out needs to be part of the design anyway. I think that's why mainstream servers have only 2 sockets. The main benefit of more cores/server is that you get higher density and it requires less infrastructure per core. That seems to be the main argument behind scaling up core counts per (server) CPU. Reply thestryker Darkmont, based on slides, appears to be identical to Skymont for the most part. Seems like maybe some additional math instruction. Videocardz has the slide deck: https://videocardz.com/newz/intel-announces-xeon-6-clearwater-forest-at-mwc-2026-core-200k-likely-the-next-plus Reply bit_user thestryker said: Darkmont, based on slides, appears to be identical to Skymont for the most part. Seems like maybe some additional math instruction. Oh, good point. I see now that Skymont also has a 416-entry OoO window, so they must've been comparing Darkmont to Gracemont. Chips & Cheese's Skymont details also align with the Darkmont slide's claims about increases in load & store AGUs. https://chipsandcheese.com/p/skymont-intels-e-cores-reach-for-the-sky Reply thestryker bit_user said: The main benefit of more cores/server is that you get higher density and it requires less infrastructure per core. That seems to be the main argument behind scaling up core counts per (server) CPU. These are as close to perfect as it gets for communications edge which is probably why the MWC announcement. Between the density and accelerators I'd imagine these will be hard to beat outside of bespoke solutions. Reply View All 15 Comments Show more comments Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Add as a preferred source on Google Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Coupons Careers ©\nFuture US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,\nNew York,\nNY 10036."
  }
]